doc/musicbrainz/reconciliation.md, before:

# MusicBrainz Reconciliation

Pretty much all the data is already reconciled by MusicBrainz against wikidata, the only thing that isn't is the `type` field for each data type. Ichiro confirmed this, stating that we won't reconcile on our end the MusicBrainz data, only the `type` fields.

For each type file, both history and export settings JSON files are located in the `doc/musicbrainz/reconciliation_files` folder

Automatic reconciliation using Wikidata's API was attempted, but yielded poor results, so I went with manual reconciliation for most of the data due to its small nature. Relevant and/or important decisions are listed below:

- For most instances where more than 1 type are listed at once (like "Concert hall / Theatre"), I choose to not reconcile them because it is impossible to choose between the options.
- Fields saying "other" or similar values were also not reconciled, due to there not being a good match on wikidata
- For area types, I matched indigenous territory / reserve to `lands inhabited by indigenous peoples` because it's the closest thing I could find on wikidata and encapsulates the concept well, and I matched subdivision to `administrative territorial entity` for the same reason
- For instrument types, I chose to match ensemble to nothing because it's unclear what type of ensemble it is
- For place types, festival stage was not reconciled because there is no match on wikidata
- For series types, run was not reconciled because no suitable match could be found on wikidata, some of the awards wer left unreconciled because it is unclear what they reference, and there is no match on wikidata
- For work types, Beijing opera was left unreconciled because there is no element on wikidata that would indicate a type of work, only the physical beijing opera, which not what we want to match

Commit message:

Reconciled tonality for works and types for release groups in MusicBrainz - Updated the type extraction script to handle release groups and to extract the `key` attribute types from works - Reconciled both data fields against Wikidata and updated history files - Updated the RDF conversion script to handle the extra data - Updated documentation to reflect these changes

doc/musicbrainz/reconciliation.md, after:

# MusicBrainz Reconciliation

Pretty much all the data is already reconciled by MusicBrainz against wikidata, the only thing that isn't is the `type` field for each data type and the values for the `key` attribute type. Ichiro confirmed this, stating that we won't reconcile on our end the MusicBrainz data, only the `type` fields and the `key` attributes.

For each reconciliation, both history and export settings JSON files are located in the `doc/musicbrainz/reconciliation_files` folder

## Types

Automatic reconciliation using Wikidata's API was attempted, but yielded poor results, so I went with manual reconciliation for most of the data due to its small nature. Relevant and/or important decisions are listed below:

- For most instances where more than 1 type are listed at once (like "Concert hall / Theatre"), I choose to not reconcile them because it is impossible to choose between the options.
- Fields saying "other" or similar values were also not reconciled, due to there not being a good match on wikidata
- For area types, I matched indigenous territory / reserve to `lands inhabited by indigenous peoples` because it's the closest thing I could find on wikidata and encapsulates the concept well, and I matched subdivision to `administrative territorial entity` for the same reason
- For instrument types, I chose to match ensemble to nothing because it's unclear what type of ensemble it is
- For place types, festival stage was not reconciled because there is no match on wikidata
- For series types, run was not reconciled because no suitable match could be found on wikidata, some of the awards wer left unreconciled because it is unclear what they reference, and there is no match on wikidata
- For work types, Beijing opera was left unreconciled because there is no element on wikidata that would indicate a type of work, only the physical beijing opera, which not what we want to match

## Keys

The "keys" that were extracted (in the format of "A major", "B mixolydian", etc) were reconciled against Q192822 "tonality". Every major and minor tonality was successfully reconciled with this, but the other modes (mixolydian, lydian, etc) were not. I left them unreconciled after validating that there are no "A mixolydian"-style entries on Wikidata for modes other than major and minor.
