doc/musicbrainz/relations.md, before:

# MusicBrainz Relations between Entities

In the MusicBrainz dataset, a few relations between entities are kept in their own fields, like how `artist-credit` is the field that contains the artist that contains the artist that made a recording.

However, the vast majority of relationships between entities are listed in the `relationships` field. Given that across all entity types, there are roughly 900 different relation types that all need to be mapped, storing the mappings inside the script would make it very messy. As such, the script `code/musicbrainz/extract_relations.py` will parse all the JSONL data files and will extract every relationship type between all entities. Importantly, the script will only add new relationships, preserving pre-existing mappings.

The output file is located in `doc/musicbrainz/rdf_conversion_config/` and is structured in a subject -> object -> relationship format (i.e. the outermost dictionary key indicates the subject's entity type, the second dictionary key indicates the object's dictionary type, and the keys of the third dictionary are the relationships). The values associated with each relationship are the Wikidata Property ID (P###) that the relationship maps to, in string format (i.e. `"P2888"`). If a relationship is to be ignored (or not mapped), then it should either be removed or left as `null`/`None`, and the RDF conversion script will ignore it.

## Decisions made regarding property mappings

- Lorem ipsum

## A note on inverse properties (or the lack thereof)

The majority of Wikidata properties that are meant to link 2 entities together do not have inverse properties. This is intentional. Instead of (for example) having a property saying that a recording was made in an area, and another property saying that an area was where a specific recording was made, Wikidata only has the property saying that a recording was made in a particular area, and SPARQL can handle the reverse lookup.

The following properties/relationships were ignored because they are duplicates of their inverse:

- Lorem ipsum

Commit message:

Improved the handling of homogeneous relationships - Also updated the RDF conversion script to handle the relationship map - Updated documentation to document the above changes

doc/musicbrainz/relations.md, after:

# MusicBrainz Relations between Entities

In the MusicBrainz dataset, a few relations between entities are kept in their own fields, like how `artist-credit` is the field that contains the artist that contains the artist that made a recording.

However, the vast majority of relationships between entities are listed in the `relationships` field. Given that across all entity types, there are roughly 900 different relation types that all need to be mapped, storing the mappings inside the script would make it very messy. As such, the script `code/musicbrainz/extract_relations.py` will parse all the JSONL data files and will extract every relationship type between all entities. Importantly, the script will only add new relationships, preserving pre-existing mappings.

The output file is located in `doc/musicbrainz/rdf_conversion_config/` and is structured in a subject -> object -> relationship format (i.e. the outermost dictionary key indicates the subject's entity type, the second dictionary key indicates the object's dictionary type, and the keys of the third dictionary are the relationships). The values associated with each relationship are the Wikidata Property ID (P###) that the relationship maps to, in string format (i.e. `"P2888"`). If a relationship is to be ignored (or not mapped), then it should either be removed or left as `null`/`None`, and the RDF conversion script will ignore it.

## Homogeneous Relationships

Some relationships are homogeneous (same source and target type), like for example the area-to-area property `part of`, that indicates that an area is apart of the other. Directionality is important, because different Wikidata properties represent the fact that Québec is in Canada and the fact that Canada contains Québec. To solve this problem, both the relationship extraction and RDF conversion scripts are configured to suffix any homogeneous relationship with its direction (either `forward` or `backward`) to be able to differentiate between the directions.

## Decisions made regarding property mappings

- Lorem ipsum

## A note on inverse properties (or the lack thereof)

The majority of Wikidata properties that are meant to link 2 entities together do not have inverse properties. This is intentional. Instead of (for example) having a property saying that a recording was made in an area, and another property saying that an area was where a specific recording was made, Wikidata only has the property saying that a recording was made in a particular area, and SPARQL can handle the reverse lookup.

The following properties/relationships were ignored because they are duplicates of their inverse:

- Lorem ipsum
