csv2rdf/README.md, before:

# CSV -> RDF

The script csv2rdf_single_subject.py converts a reconciled CSV file into a RDF turtle file.
Steps:

1.  Move the reconciled CSV file to this current folder.

2.  Run `get_relations.py` to generate a mapping.json file. 
```python3 get_relations.py thesession/``` -> generates `thesession/mapping.json`
This mapping.json file will contain all the headers from the input CSV files as keys in a JSON dictionary, and their respective values are empty strings. The users should fill all the empty values with corresponding Wikidata or Schema.org property links, etc.

3.  e.g. snippet from `thesession/mapping.json`:
```
{
    "entity_type": {
        "aliases.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q61002",
        "events.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q1656682",
        "recordings.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q273057",
        "sessions.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q932410",
        "sets.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q36161",
        "tune-popularity.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q1357284",
        "tunes.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q170412"
    },
    "tune_id": "https://thesession.org/tunes",
    "alias": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P742",
    "name": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P2561",
    "events_id": "https://thesession.org/events",
    "event": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P2561",
    "dtstart": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P580",
    "dtend": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P582",
    "venue": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P276",
}
```
* Object "entity_type" should be a dict of types (instances, not properties) mapped to the filename.

5.  Run csv2rdf_single_subject.py. 

e.g.
```python3 csv2rdf_single_subject.py thesession/mapping.json thesession/*.csv```
```python3 csv2rdf_single_subject.py cantus/mapping.json cantus/*.csv```
...

There can be as many input csv files as needed, and they will be merged into one single `out_rdf.ttl` file inside the target database folder. 

6.  This `out_rdf.ttl` file can be imported into Virtuoso.

7.  In https://virtuoso.staging.simssa.ca, navigate to ```Conductor > Login > Linked Data > Quad Store Upload > Choose File > Create graph explicitly > Rename the "Name Graph IRI*" > Upload```
Before uploading to a existing graph, if you do not delete the existing graph in ```Linked Data > Graphs > Graphs > Delete the graph```, the upload process will append to the existing graph.

Commit message:

doc: add specification about multi-file output

csv2rdf/README.md, after:

# CSV -> RDF

The script csv2rdf_single_subject.py converts a reconciled CSV file into a RDF turtle file.
Steps:

1.  Move the reconciled CSV file to this current folder.

2.  Run `get_relations.py` to generate a mapping.json file. 
```python3 get_relations.py thesession/``` -> generates `thesession/mapping.json`
This mapping.json file will contain all the headers from the input CSV files as keys in a JSON dictionary, and their respective values are empty strings. The users should fill all the empty values with corresponding Wikidata or Schema.org property links, etc.

3.  e.g. snippet from `thesession/mapping.json`:
```
{
    "entity_type": {
        "aliases.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q61002",
        "events.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q1656682",
        "recordings.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q273057",
        "sessions.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q932410",
        "sets.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q36161",
        "tune-popularity.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q1357284",
        "tunes.csv": "http://www.wikidata.org/entity/Q170412"
    },
    "tune_id": "https://thesession.org/tunes",
    "alias": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P742",
    "name": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P2561",
    "events_id": "https://thesession.org/events",
    "event": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P2561",
    "dtstart": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P580",
    "dtend": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P582",
    "venue": "http://www.wikidata.org/prop/direct/P276",
}
```
* Object "entity_type" should be a dict of types (instances, not properties) mapped to the filename.

5.  Run csv2rdf_single_subject.py. 

e.g.
```python3 csv2rdf_single_subject.py thesession/mapping.json thesession/*.csv False```
```python3 csv2rdf_single_subject.py cantus/mapping.json cantus/*.csv True```
...

There can be as many input csv files as needed, and they will be merged into one single `out_rdf.ttl` file inside the target database folder.
The last parameter is a boolean that indicates whether the output TTL file should be in separate files identified by the CSV file (True) or if the output TTL should be in one single large graph (False).

6.  This `out_rdf.ttl` file can be imported into Virtuoso.

7.  In https://virtuoso.staging.simssa.ca, navigate to ```Conductor > Login > Linked Data > Quad Store Upload > Choose File > Create graph explicitly > Rename the "Name Graph IRI*" > Upload```
Before uploading to a existing graph, if you do not delete the existing graph in ```Linked Data > Graphs > Graphs > Delete the graph```, the upload process will append to the existing graph.
