doc/simssa/simssadb_pipeline.md, before:

# SimssaDB flattening and json-ld structures

> Summary:  
>   1. Upload SQL dump to local postgreSQL database
>   2. With output run `flattening/SQL_query.py`
>   3. Reconcile `final_flattened.csv` with OpenRefine
>   4. With output run `flattening/restructure.py`
>   5. With output run `jsonld/generate_jsonld.py `(which also takes `jsonld/context.jsonld` as the initial context)

## 1. Extracting columns and feature flattening
After uploading the database dump to the local PostgreSQL database the flattening process happens at 2 stages:
1. Selection and initial file feature flattening with `psycopg` in `SQL_query.py` 
2. Further restructuring and flattening of nested structures (files) in `restructure.py`, extracting only relevant information
Note that we divided the flattening step to 2 since one could want to bypass the PostgreSQL part and start at the `restructure.py` script (Happens often in development, also mainly because simssadb doesn't have much updates yet).



## 2. Reconciliation with OpenRefine
I performed OpenRefine reconciliation. You can see the reconciled file `reconciled_wikiID.csv`. You can use `openrefine/history.json` to facilitate reconciliation and `openrefine/export_template.json` to export to the desired csv format.


## 3. Reconcile column names and generating json-ld
Currently the json-ld is generated as follow:  

In `generate_jsonld.py`:
- convert csv to json documents 
- Loop through each json document and edit each entry, creating the compact jsonld. Each json document is a musical work. If a work have multiple files, they will be listed many times, one for each of the file. 
- Generate the jsonld file at `compact.jsonld`
- The contexts used in the compact.jsonld file is imported from `context.jsonld`

Commit message:

feat: Improved the way that files related to musical works are handled for SIMSSADB - Instead of dumping the DB into one csv, dump it into a csv with all the files, and another one with the rest of the information - Reconcile both csv files separately - Merge the files when creating the json-ld

doc/simssa/simssadb_pipeline.md, after:

# SimssaDB flattening and json-ld structures

> Summary:

> 1. Upload SQL dump to local postgreSQL database
> 2. With output run `flattening/SQL_query.py`
> 3. Reconcile `initial_flattened.csv` with OpenRefine
> 4. Reconcile `files.csv` with OpenRefine
> 5. With output run `flattening/restructure.py`
> 6. With output run `jsonld/generate_jsonld.py` (which also takes `jsonld/context.jsonld` as the initial context)

## 1. Extracting columns and feature flattening

After uploading the database dump to the local PostgreSQL database we first select relevant columns and perform initial feature flattening with `psycopg` in `SQL_query.py`

## 2. Reconciliation with OpenRefine

OpenRefine reconciliation was performed on `initial_flattened.csv` and on `files.csv`. You can see the reconciled files `reconciled_wikiID.csv` and `reconciled_files_WikiID.csv`. You can use `openrefine/history_flattened.json` and `openrefine/history_files.json` to facilitate reconciliation and `openrefine/export_template_flattened.json` and `openrefine/export_template_files.json` to export to the desired csv format.

## 3. Reconcile column names and generating json-ld

Currently the json-ld is generated as follow:  

In `generate_jsonld.py`:

1. Convert csv to json documents
2. Loop through each json document and edit each entry, creating the compact jsonld. Also parse the files csv to extract and files associated with each entry.
3. Generate the jsonld file at `compact.jsonld`
4. The contexts used in the compact.jsonld file is imported from `context.jsonld`
