doc/rism/README.md, before:

# RISM Data Processing Guide

This document explains the process for handling RISM (Répertoire International des Sources Musicales) data provided by Andrew Hankinson.

## Prerequisites

### OpenRefine Setup

1. Install [OpenRefine](https://openrefine.org/), version 3.9 or later.
2. Install [RDF-transform](https://github.com/AtesComp/rdf-transform) to convert OpenRefine project data to RDF-based formats using the RDF-extension.

> Note: the RDF-transform extension does not work on browsers Firefox or Safari.

### Mapping Configuration

- Review the mapping file at `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology/mapping.json`.

> This mapping file contains mappings for some properties used in the RISM dataset

- Detailed mapping decisions are documented in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology/mappingWithLog.json5`.

## Processing Workflow

### 1. Splitting the Graph

1. Open a terminal in the `linkedmusic-datalake` directory.
2. Navigate to `./code/rism`.
3. Run the splitting script using:
    - `python3 force_split.py` to use the default 500MB chunk size, or
    - `python3 force_split.py [size]` to specify a custom chunk size (e.g., `python3 force_split.py 500` for 500MB).
    > Note: ensure the path to input_file and output_dir are configured properly within the `__main__` function of `force_split.py`. The processed files with corrected predicates will by default be saved to `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output`. It is highly recommended to store the data files outside of this github repo.

### 2. Processing with OpenRefine

> Note: Red circles or rectangles in the screenshots indicate the elements you need to click. Other annotations are for reference only.

For each file in the `split_output` directory (e.g., `part_1.ttl`, where all blank nodes from the original RDF n-triples file have been converted to specific URIs):

1. **Create a New OpenRefine Project**:
    - Open the target file located within your `split_output` directory e.g., `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output/part_1.ttl`.

2. **Apply the RDF Skeleton for RISM**:
    > Follow the instructions in sequential order:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/01.png)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/02.jpg)
    > Note: The ontology file has been moved to `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology`.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/03.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/04.png)

3. **Reconcile the Type Column**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/05.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/06.png)

    Use the `instance_of.json` file located in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/openrefine`.

    > Note: The OpenRefine step files used to be in `rism/data/reconciled`.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/07.jpg)

    > Note: OpenRefine may prompt you to select the file multiple times due to a bug. Simply reselect the same file each time.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/08.jpg)

4. **Reconcile All Cells of the "Label" Predicates for Human/Person Subjects**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/09.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/10.jpg)

5. **Apply Judgments to Unreconciled Cells**:
    > **IMPORTANT**: Make informed decisions for unreconciled cells. This repository does not include predefined judgments, as this process is for testing purposes.
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/11.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/12.jpg)

6. **Reconcile Other Relevant Columns** using the other json files located in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/openrefine`.

7. **Export the RDF Data**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/13.jpg)

8. **Repeat Steps 1-7** for all remaining files located in the designated split output folder, by default located at `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output/`.

9. **Store All Reconciled Files** (in `.nt` format) within a folder titled `split_input` (e.g. on your desktop).

> In some cases, the output file might be empty due RDF-transform error.
> Reapply the RDF transform (repeat step 2) if you encounter an output error.

### 3. Joining the Processed Files

1. Navigate to `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/`.
2. Run `python3 force_join.py`.

> Note: ensure the path to input_file and output_dir are configured properly within the `__main__` function of `force_join.py`. The final output will by default be created at `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/joined_output.ttl`. It is highly recommended to store the data files outside of this github repo.

The joined file represents the complete processed RISM dataset.

### Others

mappingWithLog.json5 records the logs or comments for reconciliation of properties or types.

Commit message:

doc: updated the RISM readme with updated information for RDF conversion

doc/rism/README.md, after:

# RISM Data Processing Guide

This document explains the process for handling RISM (Répertoire International des Sources Musicales) data provided by Andrew Hankinson.

## Prerequisites

### OpenRefine Setup

1. Install [OpenRefine](https://openrefine.org/), version 3.9 or later.
2. Install [RDF-transform](https://github.com/AtesComp/rdf-transform) to convert OpenRefine project data to RDF-based formats using the RDF-extension.

> Note: the RDF-transform extension does not work on browsers Firefox or Safari.

### Mapping Configuration

- Review the mapping file at `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology/mapping.json`.

> This mapping file contains mappings for some properties used in the RISM dataset

- Detailed mapping decisions are documented in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology/mappingWithLog.json5`.

## Processing Workflow

### 1. Splitting the Graph

1. Open a terminal in the `linkedmusic-datalake` directory.
2. Navigate to `./code/rism`.
3. Run the splitting script using:
    - `python3 force_split.py` to use the default 500MB chunk size, or
    - `python3 force_split.py [size]` to specify a custom chunk size (e.g., `python3 force_split.py 500` for 500MB).
    > Note: ensure the path to input_file and output_dir are configured properly within the `__main__` function of `force_split.py`. The processed files with corrected predicates will by default be saved to `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output`. It is highly recommended to store the data files outside of this github repo.

### 2. Processing with OpenRefine

> Note: Red circles or rectangles in the screenshots indicate the elements you need to click. Other annotations are for reference only.

For each file in the `split_output` directory (e.g., `part_1.ttl`, where all blank nodes from the original RDF n-triples file have been converted to specific URIs):

1. **Create a New OpenRefine Project**:
    - Open the target file located within your `split_output` directory e.g., `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output/part_1.ttl`.

2. **Apply the RDF Skeleton for RISM**:
    > Follow the instructions in sequential order:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/01.png)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/02.jpg)
    > Note: The ontology file has been moved to `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/ontology`.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/03.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/04.png)

3. **Reconcile the Type Column**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/05.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/06.png)

    Use the `instance_of.json` file located in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/openrefine`.

    > Note: The OpenRefine step files used to be in `rism/data/reconciled`.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/07.jpg)

    > Note: OpenRefine may prompt you to select the file multiple times due to a bug. Simply reselect the same file each time.

    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/08.jpg)

4. **Reconcile All Cells of the "Label" Predicates for Human/Person Subjects**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/09.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/10.jpg)

5. **Apply Judgments to Unreconciled Cells**:
    > **IMPORTANT**: Make informed decisions for unreconciled cells. This repository does not include predefined judgments, as this process is for testing purposes.
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/11.jpg)
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/12.jpg)

6. **Reconcile Other Relevant Columns** using the other json files located in `/linkedmusic-datalake/code/rism/openrefine`.

7. **Export the RDF Data**:
    ![RDF Skeleton](./assets/13.jpg)

8. **Repeat Steps 1-7** for all remaining files located in the designated split output folder, by default located at `/linkedmusic-datalake/data/rism/split_output/`.

9. **Store All Reconciled Files** (in `.nt` format) within a folder titled `split_input` (e.g. on your desktop).

> In some cases, the output file might be empty due RDF-transform error.
> Reapply the RDF transform (repeat step 2) if you encounter an output error.

### 3. Converting the reconciled CSV to Turtle

Ensure that the reconciled CSV files are in the `data/rism/reconciled/` folder.

Then, from the `linkedmusic-datalake` directory, run the following command to convert the CSV files to Turtle:

    ```bash
    python convert_to_rdf.py --input_folder data/rism/reconciled/ --mappings_folder code/rism/mappings/ --output_folder data/rism/rdf/
    ```

Each CSV file will be converted into a Turtle file in the `data/rism/rdf/` folder.

For more details on the RDF conversion process, read [`rdf_conversion.md`](/doc/rism/rdf_conversion.md)
